Custom Jobs (#494)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: using-timescaledb/custom-jobs.md

# Custom Jobs

Custom jobs allow you to run functions and procedures implemented in a
language of your choosing on a schedule within TimescaleDB. This allows
automatic periodic tasks that are not covered by existing policies and
even enhancing existing policies with additional functionality.

### Creating a custom job procedure [](create-procedure)

The signature for custom jobs is (job_id INT, config JSONB).
The content of the config JSONB is completely up to the job and may
also be NULL if no variables are required.

Template for a custom job procedure.

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE custom_job(job_id int, config jsonb) LANGUAGE PLPGSQL AS
$$
BEGIN
	RAISE NOTICE 'Executing job % with config %', job_id, config;
END
$$;
```

> 

Reviewer: Perhaps we should have an external pointer to PG documentation here?

https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-createprocedure.html

### Registering your custom job [](register)

> When registering the custom job `job_id` and `config` are stored in the
> TimescaleDB catalog. The `config` JSONB can be modified with `alter_job`.
> `job_id` and `config` will be passed as arguments when the procedure is
> executed as background process or when run with `run_job`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to register your custom job for execution within TimescaleDB's
job scheduler, you next need to `add_job` with the name of your action,
as well as the schedule on which its run.

When registered, the action's `job_id` and `config` are stored in the
TimescaleDB catalog. The `config` JSONB can be modified with `alter_job`.
`job_id` and `config` will be passed as arguments when the procedure is
executed as background process or when expressly called with `run_job`.
```

```sql
SELECT add_job('custom_job','1h');
```

Register the created job with the automation framework. `add_job` returns the job_id
which can be used to execute the job manually with `run_job`.

```sql
CALL run_job(1000);
```

Execute job with id 1000 in current session.

> 

Reviewer 2: Could you also add an example on how to view these jobs by querying timescaledb_information.xxxx view. Either as a separate section or as another SQL stmt here.

Reviewer: Please briefly explain use of `CALL` vs. `SELECT`, given that most functions use select instead.

Reviewer: Separately, it seems odd that `run_job` is introduced under `add_job`, then there is a fairly empty section called "Testing/Debugging".  Making an alternative suggestion.

> ```sql
> CALL run_job(1000);
> ```
> 
> Execute job with id 1000 in current session.
> 
> ### Testing/Debugging jobs [](testing)
> 
> Any background worker job can be run in foreground when executed with `run_job`. This can
> be useful to debug problems when combined with increased log level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Running jobs explicitly [](running)

Instead of being run on a scheduled basis, any scheduled job can be run in
the foreground when executed with `run_job`.

This use of an explicit call to run the action can be useful for testing new
actions or debugging problems (especially when combined with an
increased log level).

```sql
CALL run_job(1000);
``

Execute job with id 1000 in current session.
```

(Note that it should be three backticks after `run_job` sql -- github just wasn't parsing correctly)

### Altering / Dropping custom jobs [](alter-delete)

You can alter the config or scheduling parameters with `alter_job`.

```sql
SELECT alter_job(1000, config => '{"hypertable":"metrics"}');
```

> Replaces the config for job with id 1000 with the specified JSON.

Reviewer: Please clarify:  Does this replace the _entire_ JSON, or can it be used to replace individuals _keys_ within the JSON?  My guess is the former, but useful to clarify.

```sql
SELECT alter_job(1000, scheduled => false);
```

Disables automatic scheduling of the job with id 1000. The job can still be run manually
with `run_job`.

```sql
SELECT alter_job(1000, scheduled => true);
```

Reenables automatic scheduling of the job with id 1000.

```sql
SELECT delete_job(1000);
```

Deletes the job with id 1000 from the automation framework.

> ## Example custom jobs [](examples)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example custom jobs [](examples)

The following section provides a number of examples of user-defined actions
that you can specify and subsequently schedule as part of TimescaleDB's
automation framework.
```

### Generic Retention Policy [](generic-retention-policy)

> Retention policy for multiple hypertables. Additional filters can be applied
> by adding a WHERE clause to the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a generic data retention policy that applies to ALL hypertables, as opposed
to just a single one as required by `add_retention_policy`.

The policy could be further refined with additional filters, by adding a WHERE
clause to the PERFORM query in the procedure definition.
```

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE generic_retention (job_id int, config jsonb)
LANGUAGE PLPGSQL
AS $$
DECLARE

>   lag interval;

Reviewer: I know there was some discussion about what the "generic" term we should use for this concept of `lag`.  Have we finalized on `lag` as the name throughout?

Author: all the policies have the _after suffix for this type of arguments, e.g. compress_after

BEGIN
  SELECT jsonb_object_field_text (config, 'lag')::interval INTO STRICT lag;

  IF lag IS NULL THEN
    RAISE EXCEPTION 'Config must have lag';
  END IF;

>   PERFORM drop_chunks(format('%I.%I', table_schema, table_name), older_than => lag)

Reviewer: Some brief mention of `PERFORM` vs. `CALL` vs. `SELECT` here?

    FROM timescaledb_information.hypertables;
END
$$;
```

Register job to run daily dropping chunks on all hypertables that are older
than 12 months.

```sql
SELECT add_job('generic_retention','1d', config => '{"lag":"12 month"}');
```

### Tiered storage [](tiered-storage)

Custom job that moves chunks older than a certain time to a different tablespace.

```sql

> CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE move_chunks (job_id int, config jsonb)

Reviewer 2: Better to rename this as the name is very similar to our built-in function.

LANGUAGE PLPGSQL
AS $$
DECLARE
  ht REGCLASS;
  lag interval;
  destination name;
  chunk REGCLASS;
  tmp_name name;
BEGIN
  SELECT jsonb_object_field_text (config, 'hypertable')::regclass INTO STRICT ht;
  SELECT jsonb_object_field_text (config, 'lag')::interval INTO STRICT lag;
  SELECT jsonb_object_field_text (config, 'tablespace') INTO STRICT destination;

  IF ht IS NULL OR lag IS NULL OR destination IS NULL THEN
    RAISE EXCEPTION 'Config must have hypertable, lag and destination';
  END IF;

  FOR chunk IN
  SELECT show.oid
  FROM show_chunks(ht, older_than => lag)
  SHOW (oid)
    INNER JOIN pg_class pgc ON pgc.oid = show.oid
    INNER JOIN pg_tablespace pgts ON pgts.oid = pgc.reltablespace
  WHERE pgts.spcname != destination;
  LOOP
    RAISE NOTICE 'Moving chunk: %', chunk::text;
    EXECUTE format('ALTER TABLE %s SET TABLESPACE %I;', chunk, destination);
  END LOOP;
END
$$;
```

Register job to run daily moving chunks older than 12 months on hypertable
metrics to tablespace old_chunks.

```sql
SELECT add_job('move_chunks','1d', config => '{"hypertable":"metrics","lag":"12 month","tablespace":"old_chunks"}');
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe a note like the following at bottom of section:

```
The above action uses the simpler `ALTER TABLE ... SET TABLESPACE` for moving
a chunk, although it could alternatively be written in terms of TimescaleDB's
[`move_chunk`](/api#move_chunk).  The `move_chunk` function also requires an
index as input, but performs data re-ordering as part of the move (for faster
subsequent queries) and requires lower lock levels, so the chunk remains available
for reads during the move.
```

### Downsample and compress [](downsample-compress)

> Custom job that downsamples and compresses chunks on hypertable metrics older
> than a certain age.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a user-defined action that downsamples and compresses chunks on 
hypertable data older than a certain age.  The example query computes a 
simple `avg` over hourly data for downsampling, but this query can be
arbitrarily complex.
```

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE downsample_compress (job_id int, config jsonb)
LANGUAGE PLPGSQL
AS $$
DECLARE
  lag interval;
  chunk REGCLASS;
  tmp_name name;
BEGIN
  SELECT jsonb_object_field_text (config, 'lag')::interval INTO STRICT lag;

  IF lag IS NULL THEN
    RAISE EXCEPTION 'Config must have lag';
  END IF;

  FOR chunk IN
    SELECT show.oid
    FROM show_chunks('metrics', older_than => lag) SHOW (oid)
      INNER JOIN pg_class pgc ON pgc.oid = show.oid
      INNER JOIN pg_namespace pgns ON pgc.relnamespace = pgns.oid
      INNER JOIN timescaledb_information.chunks chunk ON chunk.chunk_name = pgc.relname
        AND chunk.chunk_schema = pgns.nspname
    WHERE chunk.is_compressed::bool = FALSE
  LOOP
    RAISE NOTICE 'Processing chunk: %', chunk::text;

    -- build name for temp table
    SELECT '_tmp' || relname
    FROM pg_class
    WHERE oid = chunk INTO STRICT tmp_name;

    -- copy downsampled chunk data into temp table
    EXECUTE format($sql$ CREATE UNLOGGED TABLE %I AS
      SELECT time_bucket('1h', time), device_id, avg(value) FROM %s GROUP BY 1, 2;
    $sql$, tmp_name, chunk);

    -- clear original chunk

>     EXECUTE format('TRUNCATE %s;', chunk);

Reviewer: Curious for my own education -- why TRUNCATE the chunk rather than `DROP TABLE` it ?  Any difference?  (If identical, maybe use the latter as raises fewer potential questions?)

Author: TRUNCATE keeps the chunk itself intact, since we do the insert into the chunk we can skip the chunk routing that way. It could be rewritten to use DROP TABLE but that would recreate the chunk
